### Pizza-Restaurant Application
This is a Flask-based RESTful API for managing pizza restaurants and their menus. The API allows you to perform CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) operations on restaurants, view available pizzas, and create associations between restaurants and pizzas.

## Table of Contents
1. Getting started;
- prerequisites
- installation

2. Usage;
- running application
- API routes

3. Project Structure;
4. Author;


#### Getting Started
install the following:
. Python 3.10.12
. Flask
. Flask-SQLAlchemy
. Flask-Migrate
. Flask-RESTful
. Enviroment
. SQLite

## Installation 
i). clone repository
ii). navigate to project directory
iii). create and activate a virtual environment
iv). install required packages;
- cd server
v). set up database
- flask db init
- flask db revision --autogenerate -m"message"
- flask db upgrade

### Usage
to run this application, you execute the following command;
- python3 app.py
API available at http://localhost:5555

## API Routes
1. GET /restaurants: Get a list of all restaurants.

2. GET /restaurants/:id: Get information about a specific restaurant by providing its id.

3. DELETE /restaurants/:id: Delete a restaurant and its associated menu items (pizzas) by providing its id.

4. GET /pizzas: Get a list of all available pizzas.

5. POST /restaurant_pizzas: Create a new menu item by associating an existing pizza with a restaurant. You should provide a JSON object with the following properties in the request body:

{
  "price": 5,
  "pizza_id": 1000,
  "restaurant_id": 3
}

# Example Usage:

- To get a list of all restaurants: GET http://localhost:5555restaurants

- To get information about a specific restaurant: GET http://localhost:5555/restaurants/:id

- To delete a restaurant: DELETE http://localhost:5555/restaurants/:id

- To get a list of all available pizzas: GET http://localhost:5555/pizzas

- To create a new menu item: POST http://localhost:5555/restaurant_pizzas with the JSON data in the request body.

### Project Structure
the folder structure is modelled as follows;

+ app.py: The main Flask application file containing the API routes and initialization code.

+ model.py: Defines the database models using SQLAlchemy, including Pizzas, Restaurants, and Restaurant_Pizzas.

+ migrations/: Contains database migration files generated by Flask-Migrate.

+ pipenv/: The virtual environment where Python packages are installed.

+ requirements.txt: Lists the required Python packages for the project.

#### Project Author
this application was done by;
 # Kelvin Moti
# email; kmotties@gmail.com